# A Partial Corpus of Fernando Pessoa's Heteronymous Work Scraped from the Web (English Translations)

## Project Description:
Building on the last assignment, for this week I took upon the task of finding and scraping some of Fernando Pessoa's heteronymous work, translated to English, that I could find on the web. [Casa Fernando Pessoa](https://casafernandopessoa.pt/en/cfp) was a tremendously helpful resource, containing some of the poems by Pessoa's three most prolific heteronyms - Alberto Caeiro, Alvaro de Campos and Ricardo Reis - translated into English. I scraped some of the poems of the three authors from Casa Fernando Pessoa's website using the *requests* and *BeautifulSoup* libraries in Python. This corpus formed here can be combined with the corpus from the last assignment (containing some of Pessoa's orthonymous work) to be used by Digital Humanities researchers in exploring Pessoa's literary work using computational methods. With the combined corpuses, research questions such as "How does the style of Pessoa's orthonymous work differ from the work of his heteronyms?" can be answered using digital methods such as the analysis of word frequency and other features using the Stylometry in R package. I have scraped and added here a total of 5 poems by Alberto Caeiro, 4 poems by Alvaro de Campos and three poems by Ricardo Reis. 

## Scraping and Cleaning Steps:
Given my limited knowledge of web scraping I encountered some difficulties in the process. According to my uneducated guess, the website of Casa Fernando Pessoa uses a combination between JavaScript and HTML script. Thus, scraping only the body of the poems proved somewhat difficult in the beginning, as for example the website contains embedded audio files on the page of each poem. Nevertheles, a I used ChatGpt as an AI assistant for the coding part as I am not yet very proficient in programming and with its help I managed to solve any occurring errors pertaining to the scraping process and to properly organize the scraped information. Some of the encountered issues were: having to exclude unnecessary information following the last line of the poem, having to indicate using code which line denotes the title of the poem and separate it from the body of the text, having to find a workaround to work with multiple URL's as I could not find any 'href' statement on Casa Fernando Pesoa's website upon inspection, which was the learned method in the lab to access the information in hyperlinks, etc. I also used the *regular expressions - re* package in Python to eliminate unwanted characters such as trailing whitespaces and new lines, and, here also, I used the help of ChatGpt for more complex but highly efficient expressions, which I do not know how to perform yet (the more basic expressions and 'replace' statements were done by me). All these steps have been integrated into a function that was then used on a list of tuples with all the website URL's from which the scraping was done. Within the tuples, I also added manually the names of the heteronyms and the titles of each work. Lastly, all the data was converted into a Pandas DataFrame object, slightly formatted for any remaining unecessary characters and exported to a .csv file with three columns: Author, Title and Poem. I did not manage to clean the information about translators and date of publication under each poem due to limited time, but I will come back to it at a later stage. The column descriptions are as follows:
| Header        |Description            |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| Author | The heteronymous author of the work  |  
| Title | The title of the poem    |    
| Poem | The processed scraped poem; may still contain irrelevant information       |

This repository contains the Jupyer Notebook that details all the scraping and processing steps that were performed along with the above-mentioned exported .csv file.

## Licensing:
Before performing any scraping I searched for the "Terms and Conditions" document on Casa Fernando Pessoa's website but I could not find such a document, neither any information on how the poems published on their website could be used. I did send them an email requesting access to the poems that I wanted to scrape, and I hope to receive an answer soon. I went ahead with the scraping task, but I will take this project down in case complaints will arise. This project is done purely out of a fascination with Pessoa's literary universe and is not intended to be used for any commercial purposes. I do not derive any rights from the work included in this repository, besides the scraping and cleaning operations that I performed.
